So congratulations you made it to the point where we are going to create our very first Facebook app
and drive traffic to our store.
Now I'm going to use my heart shaped dog pendant as an example throughout this lecture.
I'm going to show you how to set up the ad on Facebook and then how to actually bring targeted customers
to your site so that they will buy it.
So the first thing I want to head over to the ads manager now having set up your Facebook account you
should have a button somewhere that says Create advert.
And when you click on that you should be looking at a page something like this.
Now I say something like this because Facebook is always a bit of a moving target and whenever I do
Facebook teaching of any kind I always have to say that by the time you look at it it might look slightly
different but that said This page has actually remained much the same for quite some time now.
Now it starts off by saying what's your marketing objective and what we have here are three areas awareness
consideration and conversion.
Now awareness is all about building up your brand.
Consideration is basically driving traffic to your brand and conversion is actually measuring how people
do things once they are on your site and it's conversion that we're going to focus on now a conversion
could be any event on your Web site.
It could be simply visiting a page.
It could be putting something into the cart or ultimately it could be buying something from your site.
So we are going to do conversion ads.
So the first thing we do is to click on conversions.
Now if I scroll down a bit you'll see this conversions get people to take valuable actions on your Web
site.
All right.
Such as adding payment info or making a purchase.
OK just as I was saying and just here for completeness it says use the Facebook pixel to track and measure
conversions right so that ties in very nicely with the last lecture where we set up the Facebook pixel.
And I explained that it is doing exactly that it is tracking measuring conversions and bringing more
and more targeted people to your site.
But remember I also said you don't need to worry about it is working it's magic in the background.
Now for the moment all we want to do is just create a campaign name.
So I'm going to call mine the heart shaped dog pendant campaign one.
Now that's a good name for a campaign because it says exactly what I'm advertising the Heart-Shaped
dog pendant and I put a one on the end just in case I want to do other campaigns later on.
So having chosen your campaign name and I suggest you use exactly that method click on set up an account.
Now this is something you don't need to go through once when you're very first getting started.
This page isn't going to keep on popping up all the time but it basically just asked me to set up my
account so it's looking for my count country the currency I want to report in and my times and some
skin to leave it not by default.
Look at yours.
Make sure you're happy and then simply click on continue.
So what you get now is this fairly complex form which is essentially all about defining the audience
that you want to target to bring to your site to buy your product.
OK.
Now things can get very involved with Facebook.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to show you the essential items that you need to get started as quickly
as possible.
Now the first thing I want to do is come up with a set name so very unoriginal that I was going to call
I had set or one her cage is purely for teaching purposes.
You'll see later on that we're going to create an ad set too.
OK.
But for the moment just accept that we're going to call it and set one now the next thing is we come
down to this controversial section.
Now if I click in here you get to see various conversion events you remember just now.
I said a conversion could be something that happens on your Web site.
So let's have a look at some of these.
We've got new content which basically means somebody viewing one of our pages.
We've got an Add to Cart we've got and initiate the checkout process.
Somebody doing a search adding to a wishlist.
We don't actually have that on my site the moment adding their payment info.
Making a purchase etc. These are all conversion events and you might notice that some of them are got
a green dot next to them like this view content and some of them have got a red dot next to them like
this purchase one here and a green dot basically means that that event has already fired on our Web
site somewhere because this is the magic of the pixel.
You remember when we were setting up the pixel I said you know if you don't see it basically being active
to go to your site and just click around which is exactly what I did.
And so I basically fired these events.
I went I viewed the content you remember I added something to the cart so these are green but I never
bought anything off my web.
So for the moment the purchase one is red now.
This is the very very clever bit the bit you don't have to worry about but this really is the magic
of Facebook counts.
Because if I select for example purchase what it means is that when somebody buys something from my
site Facebook can see the profile.
That type of person it can start to build up an idea of the sorts of people that are going to buy from
my business.
And then what it will do is it will send more people like that to my site.
It starts to learn from itself.
It's very very clever.
And of course as in Facebook's interest clearly sent as much traffic as possible to your site to buy
because if that happens you're obviously going to be spending more money with Facebook ads.
So that's exactly what I want you to do is take the purchased event and then scroll down and talk about
the all important audience.
Now we're going to create a new audience and a way to scroll straight down to this location.
Now by default it will have the country where you are currently residing.
But what you want to do here is put in United States.
We're going to target people in the U.S. to start with.
Now obviously if you're already in the U.S. You don't need to do this but just select the United States
as a country.
Right now as we scroll down here we now get to play around with age gender and language.
Now at this point we're talking about your only deal customer you are way back.
We were talking about the customer Avatar the type of person who's going to buy your products.
Well hopefully given that some serious thought.
And if you haven't done you need to do that before you fill in this next bit.
But basically that's where we're starting to define that now for our campaign.
So for example with dog jewelry I know from experience that mostly it's women 35 and above.
So I would put in here for the age
35 select women and then here I basically want people who are English speaking the end of the day my
site is in English so it doesn't make much sense to send people who aren't English speaking.
Now at this point if you look over here you get this kind of barometer thing here and we get a potential
reach of 66 million people.
Now you might be thinking Wow that's incredible you know all I can do is get 1 percent of those and
I've made a fortune.
But it doesn't work like that.
66 million people is way way way too broad for Facebook to start with to start to really understand
your customer what you need to do in the beginning is to give Facebook a helping hand is to try and
define as closely as possible the target audience your self.
And then from there they will help you.
But if you just give them literary too much too broad an audience in the beginning it's very difficult
for them to figure out exactly who is the best person for you.
So with that in mind we now come down to this detailed targeting section.
So this is we're going to start to narrow down our audience now the detailed targeting relates very
strongly to the buyers and communities lecture.
And if you don't remember that because it was some time ago I really recommend you go back and watch
that now.
So basically what we've been talking about here with age gender and language use is more about the broader
sense of the customer and Fatah.
And now we're talking about detail targeting which is more related to the buyers and the communities.
Now if you remember the buyers in communities like it was all about trying to find the people who are
actually going to buy products.
And I mentioned in that lecture Labradors and a product called bar box.
And I'm going to use that now to show exactly how my thought processes work so I'm going to type into
this first box Labrador and it's just a bunch of options.
But I'm looking for the one most relevant.
So I'm going to take a Labrador retriever which has nine point seven million people who are effectively
liked that particular page.
So take that.
And now what I want to do is narrow the audience further so if you have watched that lecture on bising
communities you'll remember that the Labrador retrievers find people will like Labradors but it doesn't
necessarily mean they own one.
But by narrowing the audience and bringing in let's say proof that people do own a Labrador then I am
far more likely to hit the people who really own a Labrador and are therefore more likely to buy my
product.
So I'm going to click on narrow audience and here in accordance with my lecture I'm going to type in
Barch box now just to remind you bump box is a company that will deliver periodically a bunch of goodies
for your dog.
So if you didn't own a dog that would kind of be a weird thing to ask for.
So but for me is pretty good proof.
Now the last thing I want to do is just to check this box here this ex-band interest box.
Now at this point you'll notice the potential reach has fallen from several million to eight hundred
thousand and that is exactly the area we want to be in.
In fact you might want to write this down.
Your target audience when you are testing because we are testing at the moment we are basically seeing
if we can sell this product to this targeted audience.
Your potential reach for your targeted audience at this stage should be between 500000 and 1 million
ish.
All right.
Write that down.
That's key.
So your objective here is therefore to get a target audience within that band.
Now less than 500000 really Facebook doesn't have enough to work with and more than that we are giving
it too much to do.
So that is the sweet spot.
Now before we move on to the Form what I want to say is that for this business model this is where you
are going to spend the majority of your time defining your target customer is the key to success of
this.
If you think about it up to this point it's been fairly formulaic.
You know I can teach you how to build a Shopify store.
We can go through all that we can make things look beautiful we can choose products we can get them
from the Express.
You are basically following a formula.
But at this stage you really need to think about your customer Avatar and how you're going to apply
it to your Facebook targeting.
At this stage it is super super important.
Or to put it another way if you don't you can find it very difficult to build out a really great business.
So I trust that point is well and truly driven home.
So let's carry on down through the form.
Now the next thing we want to focus on are the placements now are by default.
Facebook says it wants to do automatic placements for you but actually you don't want to do that.
You want to click on edit placements and it pulls up all kinds of options.
So to get this onto one screen here.
Now first of all we have the devices mobile or desktop or both.
Then we have all these various platforms.
Facebook Instagram which of course is owned by Facebook.
The audience network and Messenger.
Now I don't want to get into a lot of detail about these different platforms.
What I am going to say first of all is that what I do these days is I focus on mobile.
The web goes more and more mobile every day.
I'm sure you've seen the headlines and really targeting mobile is where you want to be is the best place
to spend your money.
So I always check on MOBA and you might see a small reduction in your potential reach but there you
go.
That proves really to me how important mobile is.
We've lost 10000 people.
That's all from our original estimate.
Now for the platforms Facebook cause is absolutely fine.
Instagram if you like but what I don't do it the audience network I find that it does not bring me any
decent results.
The audience network is effectively advertising or Facebook off Instagram with their so called partners.
It will bring you traffic.
I can guarantee that but it will bring you poor quality traffic it won't bring you people who will buy
your product so effectively you're wasting your money.
And for me I also put messenger in that same bracket.
I don't feel that it really brings me any benefit so I leave with Facebook and Instagram and then that
basically is it.
So I can then continue down to the all important subject of the budget.
And Cheryl now the budget is set at $20.
Now that is way too high.
We are testing this phase.
We are testing as I said before see if we can basically sell this product to this audience and we therefore
do not want to be spending $20 a day.
So what I suggest you do my recommendation is always to spend between three and five dollars a day thats
all you need to do in this test phase.
You will see that once you find a winning product and will talk about this a bit later on once you find
that winning product we will scale up we will scale up our budget and I'll teach you how to do that
and you'll increase that potential reach.
AUDIENCE you therefore increase your exposure and you will sell more and more.
But in the beginning that is not our goal.
We want to keep a tight budget.
So I'm simply going to put in three here and then for the rest of this we really don't need to worry
about it.
All of this stuff we can simply accept.
So there we go.
That brings us to the end of the forms that you've carefully defined your audience and you've set up
a budget.
Now in the next part in part two coming up any second we are going to look at setting up the ad itself.
So I want you to click on that continue button and I will see you in a second.